* The Health probe pattern is about how an application can communicate its health state to Kubernetes.
* It influences:
    1. The lifecycle management of Pods.
    2. The way traffic is routed to the application.

**Problem**
* Kubernetes regularly checks the container process status and restarts it if issues are detected.
* Checking the process status is not sufficient to know about the health of an application.
* In many cases, an application hangs but its process is still running. Eg. a Java application may throw an OOMError and still have the JVM process running.

**Solution**
* The focus for dealing with failures has shifted from avoiding them to detecting faults and recovering.
* Detecting failure would be different across various applications.
* Also various types of failures may require different corrective actions. Transient failures may self recover, given enough time, and some other failures may need a restart of the application.

**Process Health Checks**

**Liveness Probe**

**Readiness Probe**
* Sometimes restarting an unhealthy container may not help either.
* Example:
    1. When a container is still starting and not ready to handle any requests yet.
    2. The container is overloaded and its latency is increasing and you want it to shield itself from additional load for a while.
* Unlike liveness probe, rather than restarting the container, a failed readiness probe causes the container to be removed from the service endpoint and not receive any new traffic.
* Readiness probe signal when a container is ready 