* We should declare application requirements whether they are hard runtime dependencies or resource requirements.
* It is essential for finding the right place for our application within the cluster.

Problem:
* Different languages have different resource requirements. eg. compiled, static type faster than interpreted, dynamic typed languages.
* Considering that many modern programming languages in the same category have similar resource requirements, more important aspects are: domain, business logic, actual implementation details.

* It is difficult to predict the amount of resources a container may need to function optimally, and needs to be discovered by the developer through testing.
* Some services have a fixed CPU and memory consumption profile and some are spiky. Some services need persistent storage to store data. Some legacy services require a fixed port number on the host system to work correctly.

Solution:
* Importance of knowing the runtime requirements for a container:
    1. *Help kubernetes make intelligent decisions*
        * With all the runtime dependencies and resource requirements defined, kubernetes can make intelligent decisions for where to place a container on the cluster for most efficient hardware utilization. 
        * In an environment with *shared resources* among a *large no. of processes* with *different priorities*, the only way for a *successful coexistence* is to know the *demands* of every process in advance.
    2. *Capacity Planning*
        * Will help to come up with the most cost-effective host profiles to satisfy the entire cluster demand.